

========== PAGE INDEX 261 ==========

a B
ppendix
NEW EQUIPMENT, MAGIC ITEMS,
CURSES, AND SPELLS
damage), wizards (Extended critical threat range; attacker
NEW EQUIPMENT
scores criticals against bane at 1 more result on the die (e.g.,
if normally score criticals on 19-20, now score on 18-20));
HEALING BUNDLE Communication: speech; Special Purposes: build a monu-
ment to Chaos from the rubble of civilization, reward the
This is a bundle of moss and lichens which, when applied ambitious at all costs, undermine authority, Special Pow-
to the wounds of a victim who is bleeding out, staunches ers: detect water within 50’, speak thieves’ cant, frostburn
bleeding and heals 1d3 hit points and reduces the Stamina (+1d3 cold damage, double damage to fire elementals),
loss of bleeding out to a temporary loss. While useful for supreme willpower (+2 bonus to Willpower saves).
any creature, these items are most effective with lizardman
physiognomy. If used on a lizardman within 1 round of
ANCIENT OCULARS
its being slain, the lizardman is returned to 1 hit point and
regains consciousness. No lizardman may benefit from this These glass beads have been crafted as exact replicas of
natural healing more than once in a combat. human eyes. If implanted into a raw eye socket, the ocular
takes on the user’s natural eye color and grants infravision
CEREMONIAL PLATE 30’ (60’ if implanted with both eyes). Once per day, each of
the oculars grants the ability to see through up to 1’ of stone
While otherwise functioning as ordinary full plate armor, for 1 turn. When peering through stone, the eye color of the
suits of Thracian ceremonial plate are exquisitely crafted ocular changes to brilliant gold.
mobile works of art. The surfaces are etched with scenes of
glorious battle, while the accompanying curved, semi-con-
ical helms bear sculpted designs and mythical creatures DRAGON'S BANE
with a faceplate bearing heroic features (often including a (+2 LONGSWORD)
mighty mustache and beard).
An utterly ordinary looking longsword, housed in an
exceptional sheath crafted of basilisk hide. The wielder of
NEW MAGIC ITEMS the blade may immediately access its frostburn ability, but
the blade keeps its other powers secret and it is only when
in the presence of a dragon that the spirit of the sword
AITHRE makes its presence known to its wielder, granting access to
its full suite of powers.
(+2 LONGSWORD)
INT 12; AL L; Bane: dragons (Death dealer; when bane is
Aithre is a longsword crafted from a single crystal of
struck, it must make a DC 25 Fortitude save or instantly
the deepest blue. The blade delights in any opportunity
die); Communication: empathy; Special Purposes: protect
to corrupt a follower of Law who chooses to wield it,
the weak, slay chaotic dragons; Special Powers: detect gold
slowly working to subvert their actions to support the
within 50’, detect dragons within 500’, frostburn (inflict
cause of Chaos.
additional 1d3 cold damage with every strike; double dam-
INT 14; AL C; Bane: dwarves (Ability score drain; sword age to fire elementals), resistance to fire (wielder ignores
inflicts normal damage plus 1d4 points of Strength per hit the first 3 points of fire damage each round, and gains a +1
against bane), sphinxes (Additional +2 bonus to attack and bonus to saving throws against fire-based attacks).
TTHHEE CCAAVVEERRNNSS OOFF TTHHRRAACCIIAA 261


========== PAGE INDEX 262 ==========

Armor AC Bonus Check Penalty Speed Fumble Die Cost in gp
Ceremonial plate +8 -8 10’ d16 2,500
Weapon Damage Range Cost in gp
Jian 1d7+1 15
Nunchaku Θ 1d5 10
Rocket Θ ^ 1d6+blind 50/100/150 250
Shuriken Θ 1d4 10/25/50 1
Θ These weapons are not known outside of their native region, and warriors and dwarves wishing to use them must dedicate
2d3 months to familiarize themselves to the point of being “trained” with them.
^ Two-person weapon. The usage of this weapon requires two persons to prepare and fire in a single round, or one person may
fire one after a full round of preparation. Characters using two-person weapons use a d16 on initiative checks.
Jian: This finely crafted longsword is especially keen and lightweight. Wielders gain a +1 to attack rolls with
this weapon.
Nunchaku: These threshing flairs are made of two lengths of wood, joined by a short chain. Designed with speed
in mind, characters using nunchaku use a d24 on initiative checks.
Rocket: These rare weapons are difficult to control, suffering a -1d penalty to attack rolls. However, when they
strike on target, they detonate and inflict damage on all creatures within a 10’ radius. Additionally, the flash of the
explosion is bright enough to cause temporary blindness in all creatures within 20’ for 1d3 rounds (DC8 Fortitude
save negates blindness).
Shuriken: These star-shaped throwing blades are easily concealed and are perfectly weighted for throwing. When
attacking with shuriken, multiples may be thrown in a single round, with each additional shuriken thrown suf-
fering a cumulative -1d attack penalty. The number of shuriken to be thrown must be declared prior to any attack
rolls being made.
EARTHSHAKER the creature has natural weapons, they are maimed (e.g.,
claws are broken, teeth are shattered, etc.)), cause earthquake
(+2 TRIDENT)
(1/new moon, result 24).
Decorated with gold and silver taken from shipwrecks lost
in the depths, this trident is encrusted with barnacles, its HELM OF TELEPATHY
shaft being carved with images of entwining seaweed.
This helmet, which can replace an ordinary helm, is embla-
INT 9; AL L; Bane: elves (extended critical threat range;
zoned with the symbol of an eye with lines radiating forth
attacker scores criticals against bane at 1 more result on
from it. The wearer may attempt to telepathically commu-
the die (e.g., if normally score criticals on 19-20, now score
nicate with any creature within line of sight. This, however,
on 18-20)), thieves (Spotter: Earthshaker marks bane so it
does not grant understanding of any particular language,
is more easily attacked; allies can fire into melee between
although images and even emotions can be conveyed in
wielder and bane at no penalty and no chance of hitting
this fashion. The target of the helm may attempt to resist
wielder, and allies attacking bane with missile fire within
communication by succeeding at a DC 12 Willpower save.
100’ of Earthshaker receive a +1 attack bonus); Communi-
Non-sentient and animal intelligence creatures are immune
cation: empathy; Special Purpose: enforce the law, punish
to the effects of the helmet.
thieves; SP detect gems and gold within 40’, shed light 40’
(at will), weapon-breaker (on any critical hit, the oppo-
nent’s weapon is destroyed, in addition to other effects. If
262 TTHHEE CCAAVVEERRNNSS OOFF TTHHRRAACCIIAA


========== PAGE INDEX 263 ==========

HORN OF TRITON OBSTRUCTOR
(+1 LONGSWORD)
A massive conch shell serves as the horn of the god Triton.
By blowing upon it once, the seas within a 1-mile radius
This simple looking longsword has a leather wrapped hilt
may be calmed. Blowing on it a second time causes the seas
with the image of a closed doorway on its pommel. Crea-
to stir, bringing violent waves that overturn and sink small
tures other than Chaotic alignment may use the sword as
craft. A third sounding of the storm summons a tempest
normal, but gain no access to its special power.
capable of sinking ships and doing damage to coastal vil-
lages. This powerful artifact is rarely out of the possession INT 6; AL C; Bane: humans (additional +1 to attack and
of the god and, if acquired by a mortal, Triton certainly damage when facing bane); Communication: simple urges;
endeavors to reacquire it by any means necessary. Special Powers: obstruction.
Obstruction: When guarding a door or passageway, the
MARBLE ELEPHANT
wielder of the sword may seal it as per ward portal spell
result 20. The portal automatically reappears once the
This figurine is carved from pink marble and other than its
wielder has completed combat by winning, losing, or
minute size, is perfectly lifelike. Once per day the figure
withdrawing.
can be used to summon a phantom elephant which may
be used to haul, once properly secured, up to one ton of
weight. The elephant remains for 12 hours and moves
at 50’ round.
TTHHEE CCAAVVEERRNNSS OOFF TTHHRRAACCIIAA 263


========== PAGE INDEX 264 ==========

REPELLENT STAFF THIRSTER
(MAGICAL SHORT SWORD)
Fashioned from the heartwood of a caryatid/walnut hama-
dryad, this staff exudes a 15’ cloud of scent that repels all
This short sword is forged from a glittering alloy that is
insects and small vermin, such as bats and rats. Particularly
easily mistaken for gold (although dwarves are able to dis-
insistent examples of vermin may attempt to penetrate the
cern the difference with a successful DC 12 underground
cloud upon a successful DC 14 Fortitude save.
skills check). The cross guards of the blade are tipped with
glittering quartz fangs.
REUSABLE CANDLE
INT 12; AL C; Communication: speech and telepathy;
Highly prized by wizards, this magical candle burns as Languages: Chaos, Dragon, Troll; Special Powers: detect
normal but, when snuffed, returns to its original length evil 30’, detect gems 40’, detect secret doors 20’, healing
after a length of time equal to how long it was burning. (each point of Strength consumed by Thirster heals a living
The candles are able to burn for a maximum of six hours. wielder 1 HD), Strength drainer (drains 1d4 Strength (PC)
or suffers cumulative -1 to hit (NPC) with every blow, in
addition to other damage), telepathy (grants its wielder
RING OF CONTRARINESS
telepathy extending 100’).
This ring is made of twisted wires of steel and bronze, inset
with a moonstone (worth 25 gp). This cursed item causes
TRITON'S HORN
its wearer to immediately do the opposite of whatever sug-
gestion they are given, including actions putting their life
Formed from a singularly long conch shell, this magical
at risk (such as “don’t jump off that cliff”). The wearer may
horn booms with a resounding call (1/turn) which inspires
make a DC 20 Willpower save to ignore any individual act
fear in all who hear it (DC 18 Willpower save or flee in
of contrariness. The ring remains in place until the wearer
terror for 1d3 hours). Once per week, the horn may also be
has undertaken a life-threatening action, after which,
blown to calm stormy seas or to raise a damaging storm.
whether they live or die, the ring slides from their finger.
UNBREAKABLE STAFF
ROD OF ADHESION
Carved from the heartwood of a laconiad/hickory hama-
Crafted from the heartwood of a heldreichiad/maple
dryad, this short, 4’ staff is unbreakable by normal means.
hamadryad, touching the rod’s tip to an object leaves
No matter the weight or pressure put upon it, it cannot be
behind a powerful adhesive that can be used to glue objects
broken, although it can be dislodged if not properly braced.
together. It requires a successful DC 14 Strength Check to
It may be damaged or destroyed by magical means, such as
pull the items apart. Fragile items (such as parchment or
the shatter spell with a spell result of 22+.
glass) require a successful Luck check to separate without
destroying them. Finally, living flesh tears more easily
than it will pull free. A single hand suffers 1 damage, an
NEW CURSES
entire limb suffers 2 damage, and a torso suffers 3 dam-
age. A face adhered this way is disfigured as pieces of flesh
are torn free.
CURSE OF THANATOS
(MODERATE CURSE)
ROD OF THANATOS
T
hose who’s blasphemous trespasses have drawn
This 3’-long, skull capped rod is carved from a single piece
the ire of Thanatos find it increasingly difficult
of obsidian. In the hands of a wizard with arcane affinity
to avoid the Dark One’s embrace. The curse car-
(necromancy) it allows them to control un-dead as if they
ries a -2 Luck penalty and the victim’s body ceases to heal
were a cleric of Thanatos of equal level.
wounds naturally with rest. Further, as most gods are loath
to arouse the anger of Death itself, healing via lay on hands
suffers a -1d penalty. The sole exception to this penalty are
the workings of clerics of other incarnations of Death (such
as the Carnifex or Hades).
264 TTHHEE CCAAVVEERRNNSS OOFF TTHHRRAACCIIAA


========== PAGE INDEX 265 ==========

The curse may be voluntarily lifted by any cleric of Thana-
tos who chooses to do so by use of remove curse. Otherwise,
the curse ends after the victim’s next close brush with death
when their body is recovered after having bled out.
CURSE OF THRACIAN MUD
(MODERATE CURSE)
This curse is borne by those who have drowned in the
Thracian swamps and have risen again as un-dead. The
victim’s mouth, throat, and lungs, fill with thick swamp
mud causing them to immediately begin to drown. The
afflicted must make a DC 10 Fortitude save each round or
temporarily lose 1 point of Stamina. Because of the continu-
ing flow of mud (lasting 2d5 rounds) the save DC increases
by 2 each round after the first. A drowning PC can take no
actions and must be rescued by another character. When a
PC’s Stamina reaches 0, they die. If the PC is rescued, the
lost Stamina is restored immediately. When the duration of
the mud flow has elapsed, it automatically ends.
NEW SPELLS
NEW WIZARD SPELLS
1st-Level 2nd-Level 3rd-Level
Silence*
NEW CLERIC SPELLS
1st-Level 2nd-Level 3rd-Level
Silence
NEW PATRON SPELLS
Rapture of the Deep (Triton) Challenge Deep (Triton)
* As per cleric spell of same name. If the wizard version of the spell is a different spell level, the wizard receives a
-2 penalty to spell checks when casting it. For example, silence is a 1st-level cleric spell but a 2nd-level wizard spell;
therefore, when rolling on the spell table, the wizard applies a -2 penalty to spell checks. On a result of natural 1,
the wizard suffers a 50% chance of major corruption or misfire, rolling on the generic tables as appropriate.
TTHHEE CCAAVVEERRNNSS OOFF TTHHRRAACCIIAA 265